once you're comfortable with the basic
operation of the pro pilot it's easy to
explore the advanced features of
horizontal and vertical navigation when
the system has been engaged and we're
tracking a flight plan and holding
altitude there are several options that
can be employed to change the horizontal
or vertical flight profile the rotating
encoder knob can control either
horizontal or vertical commands when the
system is initially engaged the encoder
will be devoted to horizontal commands
control of vertical parameters is easily
accomplished by pressing the V mode
button the command cursor on the top
line of the display will show that the
encoder is then devoted to vertical
navigation
additionally the right half of the
screen will display altitude control
information pressing the H mode button
will transfer encoder control back to
horizontal navigation as the cursor will
indicate let's assume we're tracking the
centerline of a flight plan and find
that there's significant traffic on the
airway that we're using the pilot can
set in a track offset position so that
the autopilot will fly the airplane to a
waypoint
with an offset moving the aircraft away
from the center of the airway when in
the track mode simply press and rotate
the encoder to select the desired
distance you want up to three miles left
or right in tenth mile increments and
the autopilot will direct the aircraft
to fly parallel to the flight plan by
that distance when flying a flight plan
in the track mode the pilot may deviate
from the flight plan by using the H mode
button to select the course mode the
aircraft will continue on its flight
path but will now ignore the flight plan
coming from the GPS instead it will fly
the Magnetic course that it's on using
GPS as a reference the pilot can then
select the course that he or she wishes
to fly by rotating the encoder knob to
end
the desired course into the display
window the aircraft will turn and fly
this course until the pilot alters the
command the course mode allows
deviations requested by air traffic
controllers or it can be used to avoid
localized weather conditions using the
encoder knob in the course mode is
similar to that of using a heading bug
the pilot can return the aircraft to the
original flight plan by simply pressing
the H mode button to enter the intercept
mode the aircraft will then turn to
intercept the original flight path at a
30-degree angle this intercept angle can
be adjusted by rotating the encoder knob
once the aircraft nears the original
flight path it will automatically return
to the track mode and resume normal
navigation when the pitch servo is
engaged using the V nav button the
autopilot will be in the altitude hold
mode and it will hold the current
altitude pressing the V mode button will
dedicate the encoder to altitude control
and show those functions on the display
notice that the command cursor now
points to the right the display and the
green LED are showing that we're in the
altitude hold mode the up/down message
indicates that we can adjust the
altitude slightly by rotating the
encoder this will change the altitude by
approximately 5 feet per click of the
encoder this function is useful when you
get a new barometer setting for your
primary aircraft altimeter after flying
for a while when the primary aircraft
altimeter is then adjusted it may show
that the aircraft needs to climb or
descend a bit to re-establish the proper
altitude
if the altitude error is more than a 20
or 30 foot error the encoder can be
rotated a few turns and the aircraft
will then climb or descend slowly at
about 100 feet per minute
when you have reached the corrected
altitude simply press the encoder knob
and the autopilot will again be in
altitude hold
if at any point the pilot wishes to
climb or descend pressing the V mode
button again will allow entering a
vertical speed value up or down in 100
foot per minute increments by rotating
the encoder knob the amber ASVs LED will
illuminate indicating that a value has
been entered then pressing the encoder
knob will initiate the climb or descent
and the LED will flash to signal that
the altitude change is in progress the
vertical speed may be adjusted at any
time during the climb or descent and the
pro pilot will respond accordingly the
pilot can set a target altitude by
pressing the V mode button once again
this will bring up the altitude select
screen and allow a value to be entered
rotating the encoder knob will change
the value in 100 foot increments
pressing and rotating the encoder
changes the value in 1000 foot
increments the altitude select LED will
illuminate to indicate that a number has
been entered pressing the encoder
momentarily will activate the selected
altitude
however the pro pilot will first ask the
pilot to verify the current altitude in
the barrel screen to be sure that it
agrees with the primary aircraft
altitude and it allows approximately 5
seconds to begin adjusting it it will
timeout after 5 seconds and activate the
selected altitude or the encoder knob
can be pressed momentarily to activate
it immediately
the altitude select LED will then flash
to show that the selected altitude is
active once this is accomplished the
screen will again show the vertical
speed and allow it to be adjusted
there is a useful feature that gives the
pilot the ability to pause a climb or
descent as an example in a climb if the
controller should ask you to hold your
current altitude a quick press of the
encoder knob will invoke the altitude
hold mode the two flashing LEDs will
then stop flashing and the green
altitude hold LED will illuminate when
the controller says to continue the
climb another quick press of the encoder
knob will instruct the pro pilot to
resume the climb to the target altitude
should the pilot wish to cancel the
climb or descent pressing the V mode
button and holding it for approximately
three seconds will cancel the vertical
commands and resume altitude hold it
should be noted that the climb profile
may also be entered prior to engaging
the pitch servo let's put in an 800 foot
climb rate and a 75 hundred foot target
altitude after takeoff and clear of the
airport pattern the pilot may then press
the V nav button to engage the pitch
servo and the autopilot will begin the
climb to the desired altitude